So because this is also, I know there's
a lot in this topic, does anyone have any
specific questions you'd like to address
regarding sort of composition API and
state management?
So the question is whether or not I
recommend using the map state instead of
doing this dot store,
dot state, for example.
In that regard,
I would say that this mapping state is
totally fine as far as keeping
sort of user usability.
Because I guess the only fear that you
might have I think with map state would be
named collisions.
And so in that regard, you can
actually V map some of those names so
that let's say for example,
you have a username in your vuex store.
But you also have a username
inside of your component.
In that case the map helpers is actually
really cool because you can actually use
an object syntax and
renamed the property that it's not to.
Basically you can define an alias for it.
And so that way you still get
the ergonomics of this dot.
I don't know call it store user name or
whatever module it's associated to.
That way you still get the ergonomics
of having that shorthand.
But at the same time you it's so explicit,
you're avoiding the name collision
while still leveraging the developer
experience and benefit piece.
So the question from what I
heard is that in the event,
we wanna dispatch some sort of or sorry if
you wanna make a change in another module.
So okay, well let's go back to our
example we have our shopping cart module.
And we have our to do list module.
That's the easiest way for us to remember.
If shopping cart needs to make an update
over to do lists like dispatch.
So the question is whether or not to
mutate it directly or dispatch actions,
especially with this case.
We're talking about basically
communicating between modules.
I would recommend sticking with
actions in this particular case.
Because the moment you have
an actual mutation linked together,
it's like the provide inject example.
You've created a fixed relationship
where if in the future like over here in
shopping list, we change either I
don't know call it the mutation and
how it works.
This can actually break
what's going on over here.
Whereas if you have an action you still
need to update if things renamed and
things.
But you allow sort of a better, sort of
a more declarative way of saying what you
wanna do and then the implementation
details can be taken care of later.
As opposed to doing the mutation
directly from module to module.
So, hopefully that helps
answer your question.
[LAUGH] So the statement made in the chat
is that they enjoy the declarative nature
or the more explicit nature of
using this dot store, dot state, or
dot dispatch, in order to be very
explicit as far as what you're accessing
rather than conflicting it with
the component namespace, right?
So in this regard, it's related to the
first question regarding weather map state
or accessing the disk dollar
store makes more sense.
And so this is a perfect example of I
think it's important to define what makes
the most sense for your team long term.
And so you're right if you feel that
over time either the the local data
instance is started getting
muddled up with the map functions.
Absolutely.
I agree that if you just
keep it consistent,
then you can go ahead and
just always do the dispatch and
do the state and getters directly
with very little confusion.
So, I just want you all to know
basically with the tip to use
it is that in the event that
the ergonomics make more sense.
And so whether you can come up with
a naming convention that maybe your team
uses for when it's actually affecting
the Vuex store for example.
Then that way you can still leverage
this dot whatever like the method or
the getter state.
But again, pick and
choose what works best for your team and
definitely don't take what I'm saying.
It's like a carpet Blanche,
always do this kind of thing.
So we have another great question here,
which is regarding, well,
if we have Vuex, right?
And let's say, its underlying,
it's already using composition, the API.
Is there even any value in the composition
using the composition API since we
have Vuex.
And so for that, I would say absolutely.
Similar to the object API and
composition API discussion.
The value of using Vuex with composition
API is that Vuex is really that sort of
single source of truth for
that global store.
And so the problem that people have
run into is because over time,
especially in view 2 people,
relied on Vuex to house everything.
So if you had only two components,
they needed to share something.
That went into Vuex immediately.
And especially you can imagine on an app
that scales really quickly with a lot of
state a lot of functionality API calls you
can end up overloading your Vuex store.
And so composition API is still beautiful
in its ability to keep the simple thing
shared.
So if it is a simple as a couple
components needing one shared property
that doesn't have a lot of
dependency on everything else.
Then I think in that case, composition API
is still perfect for those scenarios, and
that throwing it into Vuex
is probably be overkill.
On the other hand, if you have your
functionality is fetching the API and
doing all these things that
have large impact across apps,
then this is where the debug
ability of the Vuex dev tools and
those sort of things can be critical for
those pieces.
So basically, I think the key principle
here to keep in mind when determining
when to use Vuex and when to use
composition API is really determining how
critical those functionality are as
far as a global impact on your app.
And then with that comes certainly
basically the ability to debug and
make things, and fixing faster.
So the other question we have
here is regarding whether.
A single action should
only commit one mutation.
Or I think the other one was whether
a mutation should update multiple pieces
of state.
So I'm gonna answer this formula question,
if I'm wrong, please,
please clarify for me.
So when it comes to actions, there
really is no call it best practice, for
how many mutations you
should be committing.
After all, especially when you have
things as complex as fetching an API and
then breaking it out.
A lot of times there are multiple
things you're committing,
because the API might give
you one large response.
Then you want to chunk out into
different modules or different methods.
There are definite reasons to commit
more than once in an action and
there's absolutely
nothing wrong with that.
As far as mutating state,
this is a more nuanced question,
because the idea here is that,
do you want a single mutation to update
multiple pieces of state versus one?
And so I think this is,
call it a gut feeling.
Unfortunately with this one,
in the sense that think of it
data-driven refactoring from.
I would probably start
with atomic pieces only
because atomic pieces can
be composed into action.
And so unless you're really sure about
the architecture of this one mutation
should update three pieces of state.
And this is always the case and
it should never change.
Then there's an argument to impacting
multiple pieces of state with a single
mutation.
But I would say using composability and
preventing your mutation from getting too
tightly coupled, because you can imagine
that if one mutation makes three changes,
and then you use that mutation
everywhere in your app.
You basically can never refactor this
without causing a lot of potential side
effects.
Because basically,
at various points in your app,
you will be relying on
three state changes.
Whereas if we take again sort of
composing, right, pieces together.
If you do three individual mutations that
change three different pieces of state,
and then compose that into an action.
Now in the future, you can break it up.
You can be, okay, yeah, we're using this
action to commit three state changes, but
then it's very easy to go.
Do you know what?
That three only I don't need
that one I just need two and
then I'll create one that does two for
example.